AWS CloudVedant Rajpurohit
Junior AI Engineer
An individual who possesses a Bachelor of Technology degree in Computer Science Specialized with Machine learning and AI.
Completed a hand-full of internships and worked as an teaching profession in IT field. Seeking a career in data science and
Generative AI in a challenging environment where I can utilize my technical skills towards the development and implementation of
new ideas and contribute to the growth of the organization.
vedantrajpurohit3907@gmail.com
Surat, IndiaGitHub9 9 7 9 5 0 8 8 2 8
L i n k e d i n
SKILLS
AWS Sagemaker, Bedrock Model Fine-Tuning and Development Computer Vision(OpenCV)
Vector Stores (Pinecone, ChromaDB)Model Development Dataset Handling Chatbot Development and Testing AI Model Training and Optimization
AI Frameworks (Langchain, LLamaindex, Crew AI)
WORK EXPERIENCE
AI Intern
Dhiwse Pvt Ltd.
Dec 2023 - July 2024  Surat Gujarat
Completed a total of five projects, including three 48-hour hackathons.
During the hackathons, contributed to two projects as part of a team of three: the Ticketing System and the Recruitment Platform.
Developed GitHub and resume scoring systems with custom criteria and OpenAI models with features for email communication,
round creation, and position management for Recruitment Platform.Developed a chatbot using LlamaIndex, Pinec one, and OpenAI for document-based information retrieval. auto-drafting of
responses based on previously answered queries using OpenAI and admin interfaces for ticket management and responses for
Ticketing System with auto-generating tickets from Mail, Discord, and YouTube.
Developed an independent project 'LLM Evaluation and Testing Platform'.
Collaborated on a VS Code extension that auto-generates acceptance criteria and execution plans from various data sources
(PDFs, Word files, images, web links, GitHub codebases). Implemented LangChain and LlamaIndex loaders with OpenAI models
for efficient results.
Developed tools for auto-annotation of images in LabelImg and web components, including scraping and annotating web
elements.
Computer Vision Intern
IBM SkillBuild Edunet
Sept 2022 - Nov 2022  Remote
Developed the project 'Hand Sign Language Recognition for American Alphabets, Hindi Varnmala, and Numbers'
with integrated voice modulation.
Learned the concepts of Machine learning and deep learning
Mentor Sessions for project guidence.
Prepared project presentations and reports
Teaching Intern
P.P. Savani University
Jan 2023 - May 2023  
Taught programming languages like Python, SQL, JavaScript etc. to 1st and 2nd year students of B-tech CS, IT and AIML.
Provided technical support to classrooms.Dhamdod, Kosamba, Surat Gujarat
Design lessons that incorporate technologies for students.API Development (Fast API)ACHIEVEMENTS
Published Research Paper on "Human Computer
interacation with detection of hand gesture to improve
artistic creativity".Certified Microsoft AZ-900 Fundamentals
Proctor Examination.
Research Paper LinkGoogle Drive Link
EDUCATION
Bachelors in Computer Science Specialized with AI and ML
P.P. Savani University
Oct 2020 - Apr 2024  CGPA: - 9.25
Higher Secondary School (CBSE)
Shree Vasistha Vidhyalaya
Jan 2018 -   Apr 2020  Percentage: - 70
PERSONAL PROJECTS
LLM Evaluation and Testing Platform
GitHub: - https://rb.gy/ztxxlk
Developed a tool for concurrent evaluation of multiple language models with a single prompt and streaming outputs.
Built evaluation features enabling users to assess prompt responses using custom evaluation metrics and GPT-4-based evaluation,
leveraging OpenAI's GPT-4 model for high-quality feedback.
Enabled individual parameter settings for each model and detailed metrics tracking (tokens used, response time, etc.).
Implemented a prompt versioning system for saving and managing different versions of prompts.
Used Supabase for user authentication and data storage.
Virtual Painting Using Hands to create Art
GitHub: -  https://rb.gy/m6mgpt
Developed a virtual painting application using OpenCV and Python, leveraging camera-based hand tracking.
Created a custom hand tracking module with MediaPipe and CVZone libraries.
Implemented an intuitive interface with selectable colors and shapes via hand tracking.
Enabled freehand drawing and shape drawing with adjustable size options.
Hand sign Language Recognition for American Alphabets, Hindi Varnmala and Numbers" with voice modulation.
GitHub: -   https://rb.gy/dtfl2d
Created a custom dataset which is available on Kaggle and built custom models using MobileNet with additional layers.
Designed an interactive dashboard for language selection and hand sign tracking with real-time feedback.
Implemented voiceover for recognized signs to assist deaf individuals in hearing the hand signs.
Dataset Available on kaggle: - https://rb.gy/c6vf9c
POS Tagging for Gujarati, Hindi And English Language
GitHub: - https://rb.gy/88n32s
Utilized custom libraries like NLTK for English and Hindi.
Created a dataset for Gujarati available on Kaggle https://rb.gy/c6vf9c  , sourced from internet and handwritten texts.
Implemented a module that auto-detects the language of the input and provides POS tags.
Enabled support for mixed-language sentences (combining English, Hindi, and Gujarati) with a configurable parameter.
Designed a rule-based POS tagging system for Gujarati with rules developed with input from educators and experts.
LANGUAGES
English
Full  Professional Proficiency  Hindi
Native   or Bilingual ProficiencyGujarati
Native   or Bilingual ProficiencyGerman
Elementary Proficiency